---
layout: post
title:  '2013 Review and Hello to 2014!'
categories: en
---

If I could give 2013 a name, it would be a "Courage Year" in my life, where I took initiatives for changes I desired.

***My working life:***

Many ups and downs happened in my work, (well, as normal!) but in 2013 they translated to actions. In April, after 2 years in the same position, I decided to transfer to a new department. I had a great time working in a fast pace over there. In 2 months I accomplished  even more than I had in the last 2 years. I was promoted in June. My confidence and self-esteem were boosted as a result.

Again, nothing is permanent. June to September was a time of struggling with a new boss. Although I took initiative and a leap of faith to complete a challenging project on my own, I still felt a lot of dissatisfaction. At the same time, I couldn’t see real value in what I was doing. In the end, I said I wanted to leave. A boss in another department offered me to work for him in a new role which I thought was exciting. So, instead of quitting, I took 2-month no-pay leave before coming back to the new post after the Lunar New Year.

<!--More-->

Looking back, I think most of the struggles I had resulted from the differences between my own expectation (of my work, of that from others) and the reality where things happened to be. Could I have done better? I don’t know. I’m just grateful for all that happened.  


***My personal life:***


On the superficial level, I went through a big change in my life. I married to my 5-year boyfriend in July. We went to Australia for honeymoon in Aug. We’ve been living as a husband-and-wife for 5 months. To me, it was a natural flow. Nothing much to adjust actually. We are still the way we were. And we are happier now since we no longer have to say goodbyes when sending each other home, and we don’t have to eat out that often any more. We cook healthy meals at home, explore new dishes and get into regular exercise. Of course, we have some issues to overcome. Let’s just be patient and encouraging to each other, including ourselves!

Deeper level, I feel some shift in my way of thinking. I’ve been more decisive to live the life I want. That’s why I intended to leave even without a job, to focus my energy in improving my physical health and enriching my emotional/spiritual health. Now that I am in my 2-month break, I spend my days meditating, doing yoga, reading books and cooking. Oh yes, I think I’m now a much better cook that I was a few months ago.


So in short, ***what have I learnt in 2013?*** Listed below in my random thought sequence:

   * I learnt not to worry about what other people think and talk about me. How? by knowing that most of the time they are too busy (thinking about themselves) to think about me.
   
   * I learnt to be responsible for my own happiness. I learnt to take action and be fully responsible for the outcomes. To live is to be alive and to be happy.
   
   * I learnt (from my mistakes) not to talk bad about other people. Not even a word of complaining/negativity about person A to person B. I want freedom. I know my freedom doesn’t come when I gossip about one person to another. 
   
   * I learnt not to think about people whom I don't enjoy. Why bring myself down by engaging with negative people even when they are not in front of me? Simply drop them out of my head.
   
   * I learnt to embrace my desires, not to put them down out of laziness and fear. At this moment I’m in love with living a healthy and happy life, in meditation and yoga, so I give my time and energy for them. 
   
   * I learnt that my happiness come from the present, from doing what I love right here right now, not from hoping for something good to come my way in the future. No! I’d been waiting for the past 4 years and nothing new happened. 
   
   * I learnt to do what I would do if I weren’t afraid. I hesitated to take on a challenging project at work but went ahead to ask for it anyway, only to enjoy exploring new stuff along the way and feel great for accomplishing what I thought I couldn’t. 
   
   * I learnt to stay true and honest for what I feel and think. No compromise to please others by saying differently from what I actually feel and think. That’s the first step towards a fulfilling life. 


***My resolutions in 2014?***

   * I want to have my own blog to journal and share about my growth as I learn to embrace my life. 
  
   * I want to be healthier: be more energetic (means less sleepy and tired in daytime), be more flexible in my yoga practice (hope to climb up to level 3 next year). 
  
   * I want to be more present. That is to live more and more into the Now and appreciate every moment as it is. Okay, to put it more “down-to-earth”, it means I want to be more alert and lively. 
  
   * I want to find a way for passive/side income. I’m young, I want freedom and I can do more!
  
   * I want to know and love myself more! My body as well.


Hello 2014!